# Individual Capstone Assesment - Juan Alvarado

My group’s senior design consists of creating, from scratch, a web application that allows users to play in Fantasy Football with college athletes. The project will have UI/UX elements for creating a league, picking a team, substituting players, etc. College football does have a disparity in skill: large programs like Alabama and Ohio State get better players when compared to smaller schools like Toledo or Furman. In order to bridge this gap, the app will score the game differently than traditional fantasy sports have scored in the past. Instead of players being given points based solely on their in-game statistics, an AI model will be created to predict the expected fantasy points of a specific player position, playing on a specific team, against a specific opponent. Players will then be rewarded or penalized based on whether they met, exceeded, or fell short of their expected points.

This project will be guided by many of the classes that I have taken during my time at UC. Firstly, and perhaps most importantly, the Software Engineering (EECE 3093) class will help structure and guide the development of the program, with concepts like Agile development. Since this project will require a lot of coding, classes like Python Programming (CS 2023) and Programming Languages (CS 3003) will be instrumental, as they taught the fundamentals of how to write applications like the ones we are developing. For managing data and making sure the web application is efficient, a lot of knowledge from Data Structures and Algorithms (EECE 4040) will also need to be applied. For the Artificial Intelligence model, the techniques and models learned during Applied AI and Machine Learning Tools (CS 6101) will help guide the development of the predictive model. Knowledge from all of these classes will contribute meaningfully to the development of the project.
 
The technical skills that I have acquired during my co-ops will also be a huge help during the development of the senior design project. I completed all of my 5 rotations at BMW, working with several teams, and learning invaluable skills to help developing projects just like the one proposed. During my first couple of rotations, where I worked as the Advanced Data Analytics Co-Op, I got to work on an Agile team, working with data engineers in sprints, having daily stand-up meetings, and working within the Scrum framework. Overall, this experience will make it easy to keep the project development organized and constantly moving. I also got a lot of experience working with FastAPI, a library used for creating API endpoints. Since my partner and I will be working on the front-end and back-end separately, knowledge on how to use FastAPI will ensure that we can effectively merge our work seamlessly. 

I am very excited to get to work on this project. I have been a very big sports fan for many years, and getting to join my passion for football with my passion for engineering and software development is a great opportunity. I feel very fortunate that I found a partner and an advisor that are willing to work with me to take this idea we had and bring it to life. I fully believe that, if done right, the application we develop could become very popular. Our goal, in the end, is to create a way for people to play Fantasy Football with college teams, and have fun while doing it. Jordan (my partner) and I were interested in starting a NCAA Fantasy league, but we did not find a tool that met our expectations. I feel very excited to now get to create the app we were looking for.

Our preliminary approach to the project is to create a working prototype of the application and host it on some cloudroom service (AWS, Google Cloud, etc.). The data would probably come from some readily available sports API, like Sportsradar, which would be taken by a Jupyter Notebook, and transformed to get expected points for each player on a weekly basis. The AI model will be made in Python, utilizing the SciKitLearn library. The model itself will probably either be K-Means with Regression or Polynomial Regression, depending on which model gives a better F1-Score. The model will be tested with professional NFL athletes against ESPN’s prediction model, with the rationale being that if it can approximate ESPN’s model for the NFL, it should be able to do a good job at predicting fantasy points for NCAA athletes. The app itself will be done once users can play the game weekly.

## Quick Links

[Back To Top](#individual-capstone-assesment---juan-alvarado) \
[Back to ReadMe](/README.md)
